README.md, before:

# Answering User Questions about Machine Learning Models through Standardized Model Cards


## Install packages
```commandline
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
We used Python 3.11 for this project.


## Prepare Data
### Collect Data
To collect list of models and their discussions from Hugging Face Hub, run the following command from the `data_collector` directory.
```commandline
python main.py
```
- List of models will be saved in `data/all_models.csv` file.
- Discussions along with pull requests will be saved inside the `data/discussions` directory. The directory structure is as followed:
```
├── data: all the data generated after running the scripts are saved in this directory
│   ├── discussions: directory to save all discussions and pull requests
│   │   ├── <model_id>: model repository to save discussions and pull requests. the `/` in the `model_id` is replaced with '@'. an empty directory means there are no discussions and pull requests in the repository.
│   │   │   ├── discussion_<discussion_number>.yaml: a discussion file containing the discussion details
│   │   │   ├── pull_request_<pull_request_number>.yaml: a pull request file containing the pull request details
```
- A list of the downloaded discussions will be created in `data/all_discussions.csv` file 

### Select Sample Data for Analysis
To select sample data for manual analysis, run the following command from the `data_analyzer` directory.
```commandline
python random_discussion_selector.py
```
- 378 list of randomly selected discussions will be created in `data/all_random_discussions.csv` file.

### Filter Data
#### Filter Sample Discussions
To filter the random discussions in `data/all_random_discussions.csv` file, run the following command from `data_cleaner` directory.
```commandline
python random_discussion_cleaner.py
```
- Filtered list of random discussions will be saved in `data/cleaned_random_discussions.csv` file.
#### Filter Models and All Discussions
To filter the models and all the discussions, run the following command from the `data_cleaner` directory.
```commandline
python main.py
```
- Filtered list of models will be saved in `data/quality_models.csv`.
- Discussion list of the filtered models will be saved in `data/quality_models_discussions.csv`.
- Filtered list of discussions will be saved in `data/cleaned_discussions.csv` file.

### Analyze GPT's Performance in Classifying Discussion
#### Classify Sample Discussions
To classify the filtered random discussion posts using `gpt-3.5-turbo-0125`, run the following command from the `discussion_classifier` directory
```commandline
python random_discussion_classifier.py
```
Please note that you need to have an OpenAI API key to run the classification. The key should be saved in the `OPENAI_API_KEY` variable of the `util/constants.py` file.
- Classification will run 3 times, saving the results in `data/random_discussion_classification` directory. The result generated by GPT for each discussion will be saved in an `md` file in format `<index>_<model_id>_<discussion_number>_result_gpt-3-5.md`. The 3 runs' results will be saved in `run_1`, `run_2`, and `run_3` directories.
- Classification results will also be saved in columns of `data/cleaned_random_discussions.csv` file in name `contains_question_run_<run_number>`.
- Final decision about the class will be saved in `data/cleaned_random_discussions.csv` file in name `contains_question_final_class`.

#### Prepare Ground Truth
Two authors individually manually identified if the sample discussions contain questions. The ground truth is available in `data/gpt_sample_discussion_classification.xlsx` file. `1st_author_classes` and `2nd_author_classes` contains the classes of the two authors and `agreed_classes` is their agreed classes. Their agreement is calculated using Cohen's Kappa and saved in `cohens_kappa` sheet. The disagreement resolution is saved in `disagreement_resolution` sheet.

#### Evaluate Performance
Performance evaluation of GPT in classifying the sample discussion posts as question-containing post is available in the `gpt_classification_evaluation` sheet of `data/gpt_sample_discussion_classification.xlsx` file.

### Identify Question-Containing Discussions
To classify all the filtered discussion posts using `gpt-3.5-turbo-0125`, run the following command from the `discussion_classifier` directory 
```commandline
python all_discussion_classifier.py
```
- Classification will run 3 times, saving the results in `data/all_discussion_classification` directory. The result generated by GPT for each discussion will be saved in an `md` file in format `<index>_<model_id>_<discussion_number>_result_gpt-3-5.md`. The 3 runs' results will be saved in `run_1`, `run_2`, and `tie_breakers` directories.
- Classification results will also be saved in columns of `data/cleaned_discussions.csv` file in name `contains_question_run_1`, `contains_question_run_2`, and `contains_question_tie_breaker` accordingly.
- Final decision about the class will be saved in `data/cleaned_discussions.csv` file in name `contains_question_final_class`
- List of question-containing discussions will be saved in `data/all_questions.csv` file.


## Prepare Results
### Generate Plots
To generate all the plots, run the following command from the `plot_generator` directory  
```commandline
python main.py
```
- Plots will be generated in `data/plots` directory in `pdf` and `png` format.

### Topic Modeling Discussion Posts
To train a BERTopic model on the discussion posts, first run the following command from the repository root
```commandline
python -m spacy download en_core_web_sm
```
Then run the following command from the `discussion_topic_modeller` directory 
```commandline
python bertopic_topic_modeller.py
```
- Trained BERTopic model file `model_min_cluster_size_60` will be saved in `data/bertopic_model`. 
- Our trained model is available [here](https://1drv.ms/u/s!AqEGxgkW80ZOkPp1_2QYd5bWPtoZBg?e=SObpfm). 

To save the representative topics and keywords for each topic, run the following command from the `discussion_topic_modeller` directory
```commandline
python topic_analyzer.py
```
- Representative documents and keywords of the topics will be saved in `data/bertopic_model/topics/<topic_id>.md` file.

To visualize the topics, run the `discussion_topic_modeller/bertopic_topic_visualizer.ipynb` notebook.    

To visualize the clusters of the topics, run the following command from the `discussion_topic_modeller` directory
```commandline
python topic_cluster_visualizer.py
```
- Topic ids of the same clusters will be printed in the console.
- Cluster visualization will be saved in `data/bertopic_model/model_min_cluster_size_60_hierarchy_plot.pdf` file. The GPT generated labels for the topics have been used in the visualization. 
- Cluster visualization with our own labels will be generated in the `data/bertopic_model/custom_label_hierarchy_plot.pdf` file. The labels are available in the `data/bertopic_model/topic_custom_label.csv` file.

### Result of Question Mapping
Two authors individually manually mapped the questions to the model cards. The mapping result is available in `data/manual_question_mapping.xlsx` file. The 1st and 2nd authors' mapping results are saved in `author1_labels` and `author2_labels` sheet respectively. The disagreement resolution is saved in the `resolution` column of the `author1_labels` sheet. To calculate the inter-rater agreement, run the following command from the `data_analyzer` directory
```commandline
python irr_calculator.py
```
- Kappa score of the 2 rounds of mapping will be printed in the console.

Commit message:

Create placeholder file for api key

README.md, after:

# Answering User Questions about Machine Learning Models through Standardized Model Cards


## Install packages
```commandline
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
We used Python 3.11 for this project.


## Prepare Data
### Collect Data
To collect list of models and their discussions from Hugging Face Hub, run the following command from the `data_collector` directory.
```commandline
python main.py
```
- List of models will be saved in `data/all_models.csv` file.
- Discussions along with pull requests will be saved inside the `data/discussions` directory. The directory structure is as followed:
```
├── data: all the data generated after running the scripts are saved in this directory
│   ├── discussions: directory to save all discussions and pull requests
│   │   ├── <model_id>: model repository to save discussions and pull requests. the `/` in the `model_id` is replaced with '@'. an empty directory means there are no discussions and pull requests in the repository.
│   │   │   ├── discussion_<discussion_number>.yaml: a discussion file containing the discussion details
│   │   │   ├── pull_request_<pull_request_number>.yaml: a pull request file containing the pull request details
```
- A list of the downloaded discussions will be created in `data/all_discussions.csv` file 

### Select Sample Data for Analysis
To select sample data for manual analysis, run the following command from the `data_analyzer` directory.
```commandline
python random_discussion_selector.py
```
- 378 list of randomly selected discussions will be created in `data/all_random_discussions.csv` file.

### Filter Data
#### Filter Sample Discussions
To filter the random discussions in `data/all_random_discussions.csv` file, run the following command from `data_cleaner` directory.
```commandline
python random_discussion_cleaner.py
```
- Filtered list of random discussions will be saved in `data/cleaned_random_discussions.csv` file.
#### Filter Models and All Discussions
To filter the models and all the discussions, run the following command from the `data_cleaner` directory.
```commandline
python main.py
```
- Filtered list of models will be saved in `data/quality_models.csv`.
- Discussion list of the filtered models will be saved in `data/quality_models_discussions.csv`.
- Filtered list of discussions will be saved in `data/cleaned_discussions.csv` file.

### Analyze GPT's Performance in Classifying Discussion
#### Classify Sample Discussions
To classify the filtered random discussion posts using `gpt-3.5-turbo-0125`, run the following command from the `discussion_classifier` directory
```commandline
python random_discussion_classifier.py
```
Please note that you need to have an OpenAI API key to run the classification. The key should be saved in the `OPENAI_API_KEY` variable of the `util/constants.py` file.
- Classification will run 3 times, saving the results in `data/random_discussion_classification` directory. The result generated by GPT for each discussion will be saved in an `md` file in format `<index>_<model_id>_<discussion_number>_result_gpt-3-5.md`. The 3 runs' results will be saved in `run_1`, `run_2`, and `run_3` directories.
- Classification results will also be saved in columns of `data/cleaned_random_discussions.csv` file in name `contains_question_run_<run_number>`.
- Final decision about the class will be saved in `data/cleaned_random_discussions.csv` file in name `contains_question_final_class`.

#### Prepare Ground Truth
Two authors individually manually identified if the sample discussions contain questions. The ground truth is available in `data/gpt_sample_discussion_classification.xlsx` file. `1st_author_classes` and `2nd_author_classes` contains the classes of the two authors and `agreed_classes` is their agreed classes. Their agreement is calculated using Cohen's Kappa and saved in `cohens_kappa` sheet. The disagreement resolution is saved in `disagreement_resolution` sheet.

#### Evaluate Performance
Performance evaluation of GPT in classifying the sample discussion posts as question-containing post is available in the `gpt_classification_evaluation` sheet of `data/gpt_sample_discussion_classification.xlsx` file.

### Identify Question-Containing Discussions
To classify all the filtered discussion posts using `gpt-3.5-turbo-0125`, run the following command from the `discussion_classifier` directory 
```commandline
python all_discussion_classifier.py
```
Please note that you need to have an OpenAI API key to run the classification. The key should be saved in the `OPENAI_API_KEY` variable of the `util/constants.py` file.
- Classification will run 3 times, saving the results in `data/all_discussion_classification` directory. The result generated by GPT for each discussion will be saved in an `md` file in format `<index>_<model_id>_<discussion_number>_result_gpt-3-5.md`. The 3 runs' results will be saved in `run_1`, `run_2`, and `tie_breakers` directories.
- Classification results will also be saved in columns of `data/cleaned_discussions.csv` file in name `contains_question_run_1`, `contains_question_run_2`, and `contains_question_tie_breaker` accordingly.
- Final decision about the class will be saved in `data/cleaned_discussions.csv` file in name `contains_question_final_class`
- List of question-containing discussions will be saved in `data/all_questions.csv` file.


## Prepare Results
### Generate Plots
To generate all the plots, run the following command from the `plot_generator` directory  
```commandline
python main.py
```
- Plots will be generated in `data/plots` directory in `pdf` and `png` format.

### Topic Modeling Discussion Posts
To train a BERTopic model on the discussion posts, first run the following command from the repository root
```commandline
python -m spacy download en_core_web_sm
```
Then run the following command from the `discussion_topic_modeller` directory 
```commandline
python bertopic_topic_modeller.py
```
- Trained BERTopic model file `model_min_cluster_size_60` will be saved in `data/bertopic_model`. 
- Our trained model is available [here](https://1drv.ms/u/s!AqEGxgkW80ZOkPp1_2QYd5bWPtoZBg?e=SObpfm). 

To save the representative topics and keywords for each topic, run the following command from the `discussion_topic_modeller` directory
```commandline
python topic_analyzer.py
```
- Representative documents and keywords of the topics will be saved in `data/bertopic_model/topics/<topic_id>.md` file.

To visualize the topics, run the `discussion_topic_modeller/bertopic_topic_visualizer.ipynb` notebook.    

To visualize the clusters of the topics, run the following command from the `discussion_topic_modeller` directory
```commandline
python topic_cluster_visualizer.py
```
- Topic ids of the same clusters will be printed in the console.
- Cluster visualization will be saved in `data/bertopic_model/model_min_cluster_size_60_hierarchy_plot.pdf` file. The GPT generated labels for the topics have been used in the visualization. 
- Cluster visualization with our own labels will be generated in the `data/bertopic_model/custom_label_hierarchy_plot.pdf` file. The labels are available in the `data/bertopic_model/topic_custom_label.csv` file.

### Result of Question Mapping
Two authors individually manually mapped the questions to the model cards. The mapping result is available in `data/manual_question_mapping.xlsx` file. The 1st and 2nd authors' mapping results are saved in `author1_labels` and `author2_labels` sheet respectively. The disagreement resolution is saved in the `resolution` column of the `author1_labels` sheet. To calculate the inter-rater agreement, run the following command from the `data_analyzer` directory
```commandline
python irr_calculator.py
```
- Kappa score of the 2 rounds of mapping will be printed in the console.
