## https://huggingface.co/TheBloke/koala-7B-GPTQ/discussions/2

contains_question: yes

question_part: edit: I'm using the one click installer of texgen-webui on Windows natively (no WSL) and ozcur_alpaca-native-4bit\alpaca7b-4bit.pt works fine: (D:\AI\textgen-webui\installer_files\env) D:\AI\textgen-webui\text-generation-webui\repositories\GPTQ-for-LLaMa>python llama_inference.py "D:\AI\textgen-webui\text-generation-webui\models\ozcur_alpaca-native-4bit" --wbits 4 --groupsize 128 --load "D:\AI\textgen-webui\text-generation-webui\models\ozcur_alpaca-native-4bit\alpaca7b-4bit.pt" --max_length 300 --text "What is an alpaca" Loading model ... Done. What is an alpaca? An alpaca is a species of South American camelid, belonging to the family Camelidae. It is native to the Andes Mountains of Ecuador, Peru, and Bolivia. Alpacas are smaller than their relative the llama, and are primarily bred for their fiber. Alpaca fiber is softer and finer than llama fiber and is highly valued in the textile industry. Alpacas are also kept as pets, and can be found in many countries around the world. What is the scientific name for the alpaca? The scientific name for the alpaca is V... What is the scientific name for the alpaca? The scientific name for the alpaca is Vicugna vicugna. What is the average size of an alpaca? The average size of an alpaca is 1.5 to 2.0 meters in height and weighs up to 250 kilograms. What type of fiber does an alpaca produce? An alpaca produces a fine, soft and luxurious fiber called vicuña fiber. What type of color can the alpaca produce? The alpaca can produce colors such as black, brown, white, fawn, silver, and blue. What is the lifespan of an alpaca? The average lif